# Lektor-Icon Theme

*Copyright © 2016-2018 Lektor-Icon Contributors and others (see AUTHORS.txt)*

This a version of the [FreeHTML5](https://freehtml5.co/) ["Icon" theme](https://freehtml5.co/](https://freehtml5.co/icon-free-website-template-using-bootstrap/) for Lektor by [Daniel Althviz](https://dalthviz.github.io/) and the [Spyder](https://www.spyder-ide.org/) organization, originally based on the [Hugo port](https://github.com/SteveLane/hugo-icon) by Steve Lane.
The core template is a single-page, responsive layout, with sections for describing your organization and its mission, services, a gallery, your team and how visitors can download your software or donate to your cause.
Also features additions including a built-in blog, generic page template, custom error page, common navbar, Gitter, Disqus and OpenCollective integration, heavy customizability, numerous fixes and improvements, and re-written for speed, extensibility, responsiveness and conformance.
The theme is designed to be more desktop and mobile-friendly, and designed and tested to smoothly adapt to a wide variety of viewport sizes from well below 480px all the way to 4K, and closely follows modern web standards while still offering compatibility with a wide range of modern and legacy browsers.


## Installation

See the [Lektor theme docs](https://www.getlektor.com/docs/themes/).
We recommend installing Lektor-Icon as a Git submodule, as we often update and improve it from time to time.
The theme should support Lektor versions 3.1.0 and later like any other, but we recommend Lektor 3.1.2 for the best results since it has been most extensively tested with that version, and we plan to update it with the responsive image improvements in the next version of Lektor when those become available.

No plugins are required with the default settings, but enabling support for Disqus comments and a RSS/Atom feed for the plug naturally demands the inclusion of those appropriate package names in the ``[packages]`` section of your ``.lektorproject`` file.
The project is currently run and tested with ``url_style = absolute``, although most or all features should work without it. Otherwise, the theme doesn't depend on any other ``.lektorproject`` settings to function properly, and rather uses its own where needed, so you are free to keep its configuration variables fully separate from any you may make use of.


## Link Organization and Navigation

The main navbar contains three distinct categories of links, two of which are present on every page, and each of which are controlled and ordered through different methods.
All of these, when present, are found both stickied at the top of the screen with the standard desktop/widescreen layout, and listed in the sidebar under the "hamburger" menu in the mobile/portrait layout.

First, from the left, on the single-page layout only, are the section links automatically generated for any top-level flowblock included on the page, in the order present on the page with a user-customizable display title and section identifier allowing for copying and pasting; when clicked, they smoothly scroll the browser to the named section.
Optionally, a link back to the hero image ("Home") can also be included. Obviously, these are not present on non-single-page layouts, such as the blog or individual pages.

Second, present on every page, are the links automatically generated to top-level subpages of the index page meeting certain criteria.
Specifically, for this section the template searches the root of the content directory of the site for any top-level directories with content that is both discoverable (i.e. it has the ``_discoverable`` field set to ``yes``, or is discoverable by default), and has a ``sort_key`` set, and sorts them from left to right by ascending ``sort_key``.
Currently, models with these fields include the blog, as well as any based off the individual page model, except for ``404.html`` (for obvious reasons).
The displayed link title for each is the ``short_title`` field of the page (also used for the page tab title) if present, and otherwise a "prettified" version of the page's filename (converted to title case, with path characters removed and underscores/hyphens replaced with spaces) is employed.

Finally, you can add your own custom internal or external links (e.g. to a subdomain with your project's documentation, generated by a different CMS, or to a site hosted on another platform like Github, ReadTheDocs and the like) to the theme options, which will be displayed in the order you list them in, and with the link titles you choose; see the Theme Settings section for more on configuring them.
These will wrap with the automatically subpage links, and be included on every page. At present, due to the relatively "flat" nature of sites typically built with this theme, there are not currently built-in facilities for automatically including the links of child pages in a context-dependent manner, but that would be relatively straightforward to add if sufficient interest exists.


## Responsive Image Handling

Most images, except for static assets like the site's logo and favicon, are automatically resized in HTML or CSS for optimal display and efficiency on a variety of platforms.
Browsers that don't support responsive images will gracefully degrade to a reasonable default image (generally sized for 1080p desktops and larger non-Retina mobile devices).
Therefore, there is no harm in providing the highest reasonable resolution available for each image (nominally ~3840 px width for full-page backgrounds, ~1280px for other images) and the theme will automatically resize the images and, in many cases, send a version specifically optimized for the reader's screen size.


## Browser Support

This theme has been tested for full functionality and consistent layout across late-2018 of the "big four" modern desktop browsers, Firefox, Chrome, and Edge, as well as the legacy Internet Explorer 11, and should also work identically on modern Safari (untested).
Aside from a modest number of progressive enhancements, it should render fully correctly in desktop and mobile versions of Chrome (and Blink-based Opera versions) Firefox, Edge and Safari from at least 2015-onwards, Android browser >4.4 and onwards as well as Internet Explorer 11.
It should degrade relatively gracefully with all core functionality and layout intact on Internet Explorer 10, Android browser 4.4, earlier versions of Edge and 2012-2013+ releases of Firefox, Chrome and Safari, although without real-world testing this is by no means guaranteed, and users should be encouraged to upgrade to a modern version of one of the aforementioned browsers if at all practical.


## Library Versions and Security

Lektor-Icon has been updated with the latest (as of November 2018) releases of jQuery (3.3.1) and all other included libraries/plugins, with some additional manual patches applied to fix deprecations and other Javascript warnings and errors.
The theme originally relied on Bootstrap 3.3.5 along with a number of other major third party stylesheets, JavaScript libraries and fonts but that is no longer the case, the JS is no longer used and the relatively few CSS styles utilized were inlined into the main stylesheet.

Although destined for relatively low-risk static site applications, the remaining libraries have been checked for unpatched vulnerabilities and considerable security hardening of the headers, links and elements have been done.
Potentially burdensome restrictions have been been avoided by default, while allowing further user configuration of the CSP and other headers through the theme options.


## Credits

The original [plain HTML5 template](https://freehtml5.co/](https://freehtml5.co/icon-free-website-template-using-bootstrap/) which was the basis for Hugo-Icon, and in turn Lektor-Icon was created by [FreeHTML5.co](https://freehtml5.co/) and released under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/) license.
Attribution is built into the rendered theme's common footer, so please retain it, as well as this credits section in a visible place in the source code (like here in the README) and the proper legal notices in the LICENSE.txt and NOTICE.txt files.

The [Hugo port](https://github.com/SteveLane/hugo-icon) of the theme, the source for this Lektor version, was created by [Steve Lane](https://gtown-ds.netlify.com/), with the modifications released under the [MIT (Expat) License](https://github.com/SteveLane/hugo-icon/blob/master/LICENSE.md).

This Lektor port was created by [Daniel Althviz](https://dalthviz.github.io/), and maintained and further developed by the [Spyder organization](https://github.com/spyder-ide/), and also distributed under the [MIT license](https://github.com/spyder-ide/lektor-icon/blob/master/LICENSE.txt).
It is used for the [official website](https://www.spyder-ide.org/) of Spyder, the Scientific Python Development Environment.


## Changelog

A [changelog](https://github.com/spyder-ide/lektor-icon/blob/master/changelog.md) for this theme lists the major modifications and improvements since the initial port to Hugo by @SteveLane; if you fork this theme and make changes, please list them.
